so let us write a function LCS which takes the subsequent
CE is pointed by X and Y and its size
M and N For the ease of calculation we are adding
an empty character at the beginning So we need to
create a table for m plus one and n plus one
size
So create a two dimensional array with one extra row
and column so write int DP of n plus one n
plus one and we need two iterating variables I and J
So write int I j to iterate row write
outer for loop from I equal to 0 to I less than
or equal to M and to iterate The column
write inner for loop from J equal to zero to
J less than or equal to n as we are
considering first characters as empty we need to mark the
first row and first column element to zero
So write if I equal to zero or J equal to
zero dp of ij equal to zero If the characters
are equal we need to add one to the previous
longest common subsequent length that can be found at DP
of I minus one J minus one
So write else if X of I minus one equal
to why of j minus one dp of ij equal
to DP of I minus one J minus one plus
one
If the characters are not equal we need to see
what is the maximum length we can get between these
two sequences that is the sequence excluding the row element
And another one is excluding the column element
The maximum length we can get by excluding the row
element is dp of I minus one J and the
maximum length we can get by
Excluding the column element is dp of i j minus
one
So write else dp of ij equal to Max of
dp of i minus one j coma dp of i
j minus one
This logic will calculate the result for all these sub
problems and the final result will be stored in the
last cell
So finally return dp of m n and that's it
We have implemented the longest common subsequent CE problem with dynamic programming approach.